Add documentation for dynamic configuration of tenancy in Dashboards (#3694)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _security/multi-tenancy/dynamic-config.md

  
  This setting does not have an impact on the global tenant, which always remains enabled.
  {: .note }

- **Disable or enable private tenant** - This option allows administrators to disable and enable private tenants. As with the enable multi-tenancy setting, when private tenants are re-enabled all previously saved objects are preserved and made available.
- **Default tenant** - This option allows an administrator to choose either a global, private, or custom tenant as the default when users sign on. In the case where a user doesn't have access to the default tenant (for example, if a custom tenant unavailable to the user was specified as the default), the default transitions to the preferred tenant, which is specified by the `opensearch_security.multitenancy.tenants.preferred` setting in the `opensearch-dashboards.yml` file. See [Multi-tenancy configuration]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/multi-tenancy/multi-tenancy-config/) for details about this setting.

> Once you make changes to multi-tenancy with dynamic configuration and save, users are logged out of their sessions and must log back in.

Reviewer: This case is conditional. For eg: 
1. If admin disables multi-tenancy, users are not logged out if they are in Global tenant.
2. If admin disables private tenant, users are logged out only if they were in Private tenant.
3. Users are not logged out if only default tenant is changed.

Author: Thanks for the clarification. I've reworded this.

{: .note }

## Configuring multi-tenancy in OpenSearch Dashboards

To make settings for multi-tenancy in Dashboards, Begin by selecting **Security** in the Dashboards home page menu. Then select **Tenancy** from the Security menu on the left side of the screen. The **Multi-tenancy** page is displayed. 

By default, the **Manage** tab is displayed. Select the **Configure** tab to display the dynamic settings for multi-tenancy.

* In the **Multi-tenancy** field, select the **Enable tenancy** check box to enable multi-tenancy. Clear the check box to disable the feature. The default is `true`.
* In the **Tenants** field, you can enable or disable private tenants for users. By default the check box is selected and the feature is enabled.
* In the **Default tenant** field, use the dropdown menu to select a default tenant. The menu includes Global, Private, and any other custom tenants that are available to users.

> After making selections, select **Save changes** in the lower right corner of the window. The changes are implemented dynamically.

Reviewer: After users click Save Changes, they will be asked to confirm whether they are sure about these changes in a form of checkbox modal.

Author: Thanks for pointing this out. I've reformatted this section into formal steps, including the missing one you mention here.

---
layout: default
title: Dynamic configuration in OpenSearch Dashboards
parent: OpenSearch Dashboards multi-tenancy
nav_order: 147
---

# Dynamic configuration in OpenSearch Dashboards

> Dynamic configuration of multi-tenancy in OpenSearch Dashboards provides options to make common settings for tenancy without having to make changes to the configuration YAML files on each node and then restart the cluster. You can take advantage of this functionality by using the Dashboards interface or the REST API. The following list includes description of the options currently covered by dynamic configuration:

Reviewer 2: Can we avoid making this into a feature by calling out the functionality? For example, "You can dynamically configure your multi-tenancy settings in OpenSearch Dashboards without making changes to the configuration YAML files on each note and then restarting the cluster."

> Multi-tenancy includes dynamic configuration options in OpenSearch Dashboards so you can make common settings for tenancy without having to make changes to the configuration YAML files on each node and then restart the cluster. You can take advantage of this functionality by using the Dashboards interface or the REST API. The following list includes description of the options currently covered by dynamic configuration:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Multi-tenancy includes dynamic configuration options in OpenSearch Dashboards so you can make common settings for tenancy without having to make changes to the configuration YAML files on each node and then restart the cluster. You can take advantage of this functionality by using the Dashboards interface or the REST API. The following list includes descriptions of the options currently covered by dynamic configuration:
```

> Multi-tenancy includes dynamic configuration options in OpenSearch Dashboards so you can make common settings for tenancy without having to make changes to the configuration YAML files on each node and then restart the cluster. You can take advantage of this functionality by using the Dashboards interface or the REST API. The following list includes description of the options currently covered by dynamic configuration:

Reviewer 3: "create common settings" instead of "make"?

> - **Disable or enable multi-tenancy** - Administrators can disable and enable multi-tenancy dynamically. Disabling multi-tenancy does not pose a risk for loss of data. If and when an administrator chooses to re-enable tenancy, all previously saved objects are preserved and made available.  The default is `true`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Disable or enable multi-tenancy** -- Administrators can disable and enable multi-tenancy dynamically. Disabling multi-tenancy does not pose a risk of data loss. If and when an administrator chooses to reenable tenancy, all previously saved objects are preserved and made available. The default is `true`.
```

  
  This setting does not have an impact on the global tenant, which always remains enabled.
  {: .note }

> - **Disable or enable private tenant** - This option allows administrators to disable and enable private tenants. As with the enable multi-tenancy setting, when private tenants are re-enabled all previously saved objects are preserved and made available.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Disable or enable private tenant** -- This option allows administrators to disable and enable private tenants. As with the `enable multi-tenancy` setting, when private tenants are reenabled, all previously saved objects are preserved and made available.
```

> - **Default tenant** - This option allows an administrator to choose either a global, private, or custom tenant as the default when users sign on. In the case where a user doesn't have access to the default tenant (for example, if a custom tenant unavailable to the user was specified as the default), the default transitions to the preferred tenant, which is specified by the `opensearch_security.multitenancy.tenants.preferred` setting in the `opensearch-dashboards.yml` file. See [Multi-tenancy configuration]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/multi-tenancy/multi-tenancy-config/) for details about this setting.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Default tenant** -- This option allows an administrator to choose either a global, private, or custom tenant as the default when users sign on. In cases where a user doesn't have access to the default tenant (for example, if a custom tenant unavailable to the user was specified as the default), the default transitions to the preferred tenant, which is specified by the `opensearch_security.multitenancy.tenants.preferred` setting in the `opensearch-dashboards.yml` file. See [Multi-tenancy configuration]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/multi-tenancy/multi-tenancy-config/) for more information about this setting.
```

> Depending on the specific changes made to multi-tenancy using dynamic configuration, some users may be logged out of their Dashboards session once the changes are saved. For example, if an admin user disables multi-tenancy, users with either a private or custom tenant as their selected tenant will be logged out and will need to log back in. Similarly, if an admin user disables private tenants, users with the private tenant selected will be logged out and will need to log back in. 

Reviewer 3: We use "sign on" in the para above but "log in" here.

> The global tenant, however, is a special case. Since this tenant is never disabled, users with global tenant selected as their active tenant will experience no interruption to their session. Furthermore, changing the default tenant has no impact on a user's session.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The global tenant, however, is a special case. Because this tenant is never disabled, users with the global tenant selected as their active tenant will experience no interruption to their session. Furthermore, changing the default tenant has no impact on a user's session.
```

## Configuring multi-tenancy in OpenSearch Dashboards

> To configure multi-tenancy in Dashboards, follow these steps. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To configure multi-tenancy in Dashboards, follow these steps: 
```

> To make settings for multi-tenancy in Dashboards, follow these steps. 

Reviewer 2: To configure multi-tenancy... ?

1. Begin by selecting **Security** in the Dashboards home page menu. Then select **Tenancy** from the Security menu on the left side of the screen. The **Multi-tenancy** page is displayed. 
1. By default, the **Manage** tab is displayed. Select the **Configure** tab to display the dynamic settings for multi-tenancy.

>    * In the **Multi-tenancy** field, select the **Enable tenancy** checkbox to enable multi-tenancy. Clear the checkbox to disable the feature. The default is `true`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   * In the **Multi-tenancy** field, select the **Enable tenancy** check box to enable multi-tenancy. Clear the check box to disable the feature. The default is `true`.
```

>    * In the **Tenants** field, you can enable or disable private tenants for users. By default the checkbox is selected and the feature is enabled.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   * In the **Tenants** field, you can enable or disable private tenants for users. By default, the check box is selected and the feature is enabled.
```

   * In the **Default tenant** field, use the dropdown menu to select a default tenant. The menu includes Global, Private, and any other custom tenants that are available to users.

> 1. After making your preferred changes, select **Save changes** in the lower right corner of the window. A popup window appears listing the configuration items you've changed and asks you to review your changes.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. After making your preferred changes, select **Save changes** in the lower-right corner of the window. A pop-up window appears listing the configuration items you've changed and asks you to review your changes.
```

> 1. Select the checkboxes beside the items you want to confirm and then select **Apply changes**. The changes are implemented dynamically.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Select the check boxes beside the items you want to confirm and then select **Apply changes**. The changes are implemented dynamically.
```

## Configuring multi-tenancy with the REST API

> In addition to the Dashboards interface, dynamic configurations can be made using the REST API. 

Reviewer 3: "created" instead of "made"?

### Get tenancy configuration

> Retrieves settings for the dynamic configuration.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Retrieves settings for the dynamic configuration:
```

> Retrieves settings for the dynamic configuration.

Reviewer 3: Can we rephrase this as a complete sentence?

```json
GET /_plugins/_security/api/tenancy/config
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

#### Example response

```json
{
    "mulitenancy_enabled": true,
    "private_tenant_enabled": true,
    "default_tenant": "global tenant"
}
```

### Update tenant configuration

> Updates settings for dynamic configuration.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Updates settings for dynamic configuration:
```

> Updates settings for dynamic configuration.

Reviewer 3: Can we rephrase this as a complete sentence?

```json
PUT /_plugins/_security/api/tenancy/config
{
    "default_tenant": "custom tenant 1",
    "private_tenant_enabled": false,
    "mulitenancy_enabled": true
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

### Example response

```json
{
    "mulitenancy_enabled": true,
    "private_tenant_enabled": false,
    "default_tenant": "custom tenant 1"
}
```

### Dashboardsinfo API

> You can also use the Dashboardsinfo API to retrieve the status of multi-tenancy settings for the user logged in to Dashboards.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can also use the Dashboardsinfo API to retrieve the status of multi-tenancy settings for the user logged in to Dashboards:
```
